So let's continue getting to know the possibilities that NumPy offers.
I'm visiting this notebook that we have left after having created a raffle.
Now we're going to find inside a raffle.
It's unique values.
For that we can call NPR Dot Unique, which is a method that will allow you to find all the unique elements
inside the raffle.
So we run it and we're going to find that we now have an array composed of numbers, a series of numbers
without repeat, because it took all the numbers from array four.
And however many of them are repeated here, it shows the different numbers without repeats.
If we want to extract an element from a raffle, not from this one without repeats, but from the original
one, this is going to surprise you.
Suppose I want to extract from a raffle only index one.
What do you expect to find?
Let's see.
Take a second to think.
And if we select index one of this element, what do we get?
Well, let's see.
So we run it and we get the whole second line.
And maybe you'd expect using the logic that we've learned so far, that we get the number eight, because
this would be index zero and therefore index one should be eight.
But no actually index zero of this array is this row, all of it index one is this second row and that's
what came.
Index one is all of this.
If this time we want to extract the first two rows of our array for what we're going to call now, inside
the square brackets is colon two.
And when we run it, it's going to bring up both the row that we just got and row zero.
And if you want to extract a certain number of elements from a certain number of rows, for example,
the first two rows of data, we do something similar.
We call array four, but in the square brackets we pass two for the elements, comma, two for the row,
and we're executed.
And this brings us the three and the eight of the first row and the five and the eight of the second
row.
So you're extracting section elements from the whole array.
So the next instruction is for us to create two, three by four arrays each, the first with random
0 to 10 and the second with pure ones.
So let's do that.
Let's create an array five that is equal to an NP dot random dot random that has numbers from 0 to 10
and that has a dimension of three by four.
That's the array five.
You already know how to do this.
You can also know how to make array six, which is according to the instruction has to have pure ones.
So we put np dot ones and that it has a size of three high and four long.
So we declare them.
They already exist.
We call them first array five.
We run it to see it and it's well created.
They are random three by four.
And we also invoke array six, which should be pure ones, but the same size as the previous array.
And here we have our second array.
Notice it has the same dimensions but different contents.
So what are we going to do now?
Let's add these two arrays together and see what happens.
If we add arrays together, let's call array five, plus array six, run this curiosity and we get an
array of the same dimensions as before.
But each of its elements is the sum of the elements that are at the same index.
So now we create an array, but instead of being three by four, it will be four by three.
That is to say, it will have different dimensions.
It is going to be the array seven and it's going to be the same as an NP of ones, but it's not going
to be three by four as before, but four by three now we call it, and we execute it.
There you go.
So we have two arrays of different dimensions, one, four by three and one, three by four.
And what we're going to try to do now is to add up array six, which is three by four, plus array seven,
which is four by three.
So let's do it.
Let's add arrays, six plus array, seven, run.
And we're going to get an error which tells us that the operations cannot be put together with shapes
that are three by four and four by three.
You can only do operations between arrays when they have the same dimensions.
And the curious fact, which you might find very useful, is that when you find the book in the CoLab
notebooks, you will have the possibility to search for this bug in Stack Overflow, which, as you
know, is the biggest forum in the world for finding bugs in programming.
And here you come, you come across this bug and what other users have said and if they've solved it,
etc..
So this bulletin will always be useful for you.
Well, what's the reason for this error above?
What should we take into account so it doesn't happen to our arrays?
Have the same size.
So let's create then another array of size four by three as well.
But this time filled with ones, it's going to be the array eight and it's going to be equal to an NP
dot.
Once that's four high by three long.
We invoke it so that we can see that it came out the way we wanted it to.
And now we're going to subtract array eight minus array seven.
And what we get is a list that was possible to make because since they both have the same dimensions,
the ones in array seven subtract from each other with the ones in array eight and we get an array that
contains only zeros.
Now let's create two other arrays that are both three by three and have random numbers from 1 to 5.
They're going to be array nine, which is going to be equal to NP random dot round it, which has numbers
from 1 to 5 and which has a dimension of three by three.
And the array ten is going to be exactly the same.
So we copy and paste, but we tell it you are the array ten.
We invoke them so we can see them array nine and array ten.
So we execute both cells so that they are shown there.
We have the first one and the second one.
Although both have the same code, we get different values because they are random and now we're going
to multiply the two arrays with each other.
Can we array nine by array ten?
Of course we can, because they have the same dimensions and we can get an array whose numbers are the
result of multiplying the numbers at the same index.
We can also square an array.
Let's do it with the array nine and power it with two asterisks and the two as we do in all Python.
And there we have it.
So we can also find the square root with np dot sqrt.
We apply it to array ten, we run it and we get the square root of each of the numbers in our array.
We can also find the average of the values that are in array.
For example, of array nine.
If I apply the mean method, it will add all the numbers.
It will divide them by the amount of numbers that they are.
And it will tell me the average of array nine.
You can see it there.
We can also find the maximum value to the array nine we apply max and we execute it and you're going
to get a single number which is the highest of all the numbers in that array.
If we want to find the minimum value, we do something very similar with array nine dot min and there
you have it.
We can also change the shape of the array nine, which is three by three.
We're going to transform it into an array, nine high by one long and store it as array 11.
So how do we do this?
We say that array 11 is going to be the same as array nine, but applying the method reshape which asks
us to pass it the new shape it's going to have, which is going to be nine by one.
So we run it, we invoke array 11 down here so we can see how this has turned out.
And now our ray has a very long shape, like a lamp post with all the numbers arranged, one on top
of the other.
This is a two dimensional array, which though it looks one dimensional because it's nine high and one
long.
Now let's transpose the array.
11.
So what does transpose mean?
It means change what is in the columns and put it in rows and vice versa.
We do this with a very simple method which is t this transposes everything and now our array has been
laid down this array.
Don't be fooled has two dimensions.
As you can see, it has two square brackets because it has the dimension height and dimension length.
So we can also compare array nine and array ten to see which elements in array nine are larger than
those in array ten.
To see what this would look like.
So we create an array 12 which is going to be equal to array nine comparing it if it is greater than
array ten, we're going to run our array 12 to see what the result of this is.
And we're going to be able to see that each index in this array says true or false as appropriate,
to tell us if the number in Array nine is greater than the one in the same position in array ten.
The Array 12 is then composed of boolean values.
We can check this by calling array 12 dot D type and we see that the type of data contained in our array
is no longer integers but booleans.
So we are now finishing.
Let's see if any of these elements in array nine is equal to the equivalent in array ten.
We do the same thing we did here, copy and paste.
But this time, instead of seeing if it is greater, we're going to see if this equal with two equals
symbols.
This will tell us which are equal, if any, and which are not.
If we want to compare both arrays to see if nine is greater than or equal to ten, we will receive slightly
similar results.
If we want to find only the elements of array nine that are greater than two.
How would we do it?
We ask array nine to show us the ones greater than two and this will tell us which ones are and which
ones are not.
So look, all you have to play and have fun with.
Finally, let's see that you can sort the elements from smallest to largest inside an array with NPCs.
And here we put the array nine as the object to sort.
We execute this line and here we have the elements sorted from highest to lowest in each line.
Well, this is just a glimpse, the tip of the iceberg of everything numpy allows you to do.
And above all, the most interesting thing is to get to know this array element of which we had no idea
of until now.
So do some research, look for documentation, play around, and look for exercises.
There is a lot to do with NumPy, which is one of the pillars of data science.
In the next lesson, we're going to get to know another of those pillars, which is the Panda Library.
So I'll see you there.